Enough lecturing.
Time to start writing out some code.
So here's our short term goal.
Here's what we're going to go through in the next couple of videos.
We're going to create a new sub project inside of our current project directory.
We're going to make sure that it has TypeScript support because I want to make sure that we understand
how to work with Node Nat streaming while using TypeScript.
We're then going to install Node Nat streaming into it and we're going to use it to connect to our NAT
streaming server.
Then inside this little sub project, we're going to make sure that we have two different NPM scripts,
essentially two different ways to run our project.
One script is going to try to run some code to emit events into that streaming server, and the other
script is going to run some code that's going to listen for events.
So we'll then have essentially two separate programs where we can emit events or listen for events.
Last important note that I want to throw out is that this program or essentially these two separate
programs are going to be executed from outside of Kubernetes.
So we're not going to worry about creating a deployment or anything like that.
However, this is going to present some interesting challenge because we're going to want to connect
to the node nat streaming server or the NAT streaming server that is running inside of our Kubernetes
cluster.
So we just need to keep in mind that we need to somehow get access to the NAT streaming server.
Okay, so let's get to it.
To get started, I'm going to go back over to my terminal.
I'm inside of my route ticketing directory inside of here.
I'm going to make a folder called Nat's Test.
The only reason I'm calling it a test is to just make it really clear that this is some little test
project inside of here.
I'm going to change into that directory.
Generate a package json file.
Well then install a couple of different dependencies.
So in total we're going to get that node and that's streaming thing.
We're also going to get a couple of other dependencies just to run this project using TypeScript.
So NPM install.
We're going to get node nats streaming.
RT's node dev.
TypeScript.
And then we're also going to get a type definition file for node JS itself at types slash node.
Okay.
Let's run that.
It's going to take just a moment or two to install all that stuff.
So while that's running, let's go back over to our editor and find the new Nats dash test directory.
Inside there, I'm going to make a new folder called CRC.
And inside of CRC.
I'm going to create two files.
I'm going to call one publisher.
Yes.
And the other listener.
So these are going to be essentially the two separate programs we're going to put together.
One is going to be dedicated to listening for events.
As you'd guess, that's listener duties.
And the other is going to be dedicated to publishing events.
Obviously publisher duties.
Before worrying about writing out any code inside of here.
Let's write out some different scripts to run each of these two separate files inside a package json.
I will delete the test script.
And I'm going to replace it with publish.
Whenever we run the Polish command, we're going to execute RTS node dev.
We're going to put in a option here of dash, dash, notify, false.
And then we're going to try to run the show.
See?
Publisher file.
Then as a second script, we're going to do pretty much the same thing.
It will change the script name to listen.
Still going to do no.
Dev dash.
Dash notify.
False.
SC And this time around.
Listener Yes.
That looks good.
So we've got some root files, we've got dependencies, we've got our scripts.
Before we start to write out some code, one last little administrative thing we have to do.
We are making use of TypeScript, so we really should still create a config file inside of here.
To do so, we can go back over to our terminal.
And again inside of our Natt stash test directory, a TSE dash dash in it.
And of course, this command is assuming that you have TypeScript globally installed on your system.
So if you get an error from that, you'll need to do an NPM, install dmg typescript and then rerun
tsk in it.
Okay.
So let's go back over.
We're going to first start off inside of our publisher file.
Inside.
If you're at the very top, let's first import the node and that streaming library.
So we're going to import nets from node nets streaming.
We're then going to use this library to create a client.
The client is what is going to actually connect to our streaming server and try to exchange some information
with it.
So we'll say client is next connect.
Now, quick note here.
You're going to see inside of just about all the documentation rather than calling this thing client,
which is a very reasonable term for it.
Instead, a lot of documentation is going to refer to this as Stan.
So Stan is just kind of a gnat streaming server or Nats project.
Little piece of terminology is just what they like to call a client.
That's, as you'd kind of guess, is simply to me or Stan is just Nat's backwards.
So Nat's is the library.
We're kind of a class of sorts.
Stan is an actual instance or a client that we're using to connect to Nat streaming server.
If you want to instead call this client because it's 1000 times more clear, that's totally fine.
But I'm going to stick with the community convention, which is to call it Stan.
It's now inside of Kinect right here.
We're getting an ear, of course.
So we need to put in a couple of different arguments to this thing.
The first two arguments are going to put in we're going to throw in for right now and we'll come back
and discuss why we use these values in just a little bit.
The first thing I'm going to put in is a string of ticketing.
But the second argument I'm going to put in ABC.
And then finally, for the last argument, I'm going to put in an object, I'm going to specify a URL
and I'll put in an address right here of HTTP, own slash, slash, localhost or two, two, two.
Then after that, we're going to wait for Stan or the client in this case to successfully connect to
our net streaming server.
So to wait for this thing to actually connect, unfortunately, again, we don't get to make use of
that nice async await syntax.
Instead, we have to take a primarily event driven approach.
So after the client successfully connects to the net, streaming server is going to emit a connect event.
So we're going to listen for the Connect event.
I'm going to put in stand on Connect.
And then a function as a second argument.
So this function will be executed after the client has successfully connected to the net streaming server.
Let's do a console.log inside of here just to kind of confirm that that takes place.
So I'll do a console log of publisher.
Connected to Nats.
Okay.
So this looks good.
Let's save this right here.
If we try to run this code right now, we're going to get an error because our net streaming server
is not available on localhost, four, 2 to 2.
Remember, our NAT string server is running inside of our Kubernetes cluster, and by default, we don't
have direct access to anything running inside there.
So let's take a pause right here.
We'll come back to the next video and figure out how we can somehow get access to the NAT streaming
server very easily just for test purposes.